# On the Origin of Structure 

The use of the measurement of FSD was critical to the field of forestry’s maturation and provide some of the earliest known uses of FSD in history. The first organized attempts by Europeans to measure or survey forests was in the 1500s in what is now modern day Austria and Germany. By the 1700s, advancing measurement theory and practice led to forest yield tables, inventory protocols, and management plans (Assmann, 1970; Burkhart et al. 2018).  In Japan,   long-standing forest management protocols coupled with advances in measurements, instrumentation, and inventory techniques in the 1700s, resulted in scientific coalescence (Iwamoto, 2002). By the 1900s, forestry had morphed into a matured scientific discipline  because of advances in measurement, including FSD measurements (Chapman, 1924).

In contrast to forestry, ecology has disproportionately focused on measurements that incorporate composition rather than structure (Noss, 1990). Ecology’s history is deeply entwined with both natural history and botany--disciplines with strong foci on description, classification, and order. The observational nature of protoecology stemmed from systematic attempts to describe and categorize the natural world. Early work by von Humboldt (1806), Schouw (1832), Grisebach (1872), and Mobius (1877) centered on mapping plant growth forms into types, termed “associations''--a term that dominated ecological thinking for decades. In 1904 Clements even wrote “...the principle of the association is the fundamental law of vegetation,” still, even in 1962, Whittaker referred to the association as the “fundamental unit of ecological science”  (ADD REFS)
Association describes a type of ecological community with a predictable species composition and physiognomy (dominant species, height, tree spacing, shape, leaf traits, etc.) of a plant community (Braun-Blanquet 1932; De Cáceres et al. 2015). Association are determined based on appearance, not explicitly measurement.The early 1900s brought more granularity and specificity to these categorization attempts with Raunkiaer (1913; 1918), Clements, Du Rietz, Tansley and Braun seeking to formalize the definition and application of the “association” (Whittaker, 1962).  Early work of the 1900s focused on types of ecological communities based on a predictable species composition or physiognomy (associations, Braun-Blanquet 1932 ).  However, still largely absent from these approaches was any objectively quantifiable measurement or description of structure. This resulted in early ecological theory on how ecosystems function developing in the absence of structural data. This legacy of theory without structure remains,  as seen in how ecosystem models often fail to capture structure or structural change (Fisher et al. 2018). A lack of structural representation comes from the lack of structural integration in the theory underlying model algorithms and architecture.

Led by population and community ecologists through  the 20th century,, ecology gravitated away from purely observational studies to adopt increasing levels of mathematical rigor (Kingsland, 1985) rooted in measuring observed pattern and process. As ecology adopted more quantitative and rigorous methods, new and novel ways were created for measuring taxonomic and phylogenetic diversity (Peet 1974; Hunter 1994; Wilson 1988; Magurran & McGill 2011 ), as well as functional and morphological trait diversity (Laliberté & Legendre 2010; Mims et al 2010). Indices derived from taxonomic and functional data have been used to quantify both spatial (Whittaker 1972; Noss 1990; Podani et al 2013) and temporal (Shurin 2007; Baselga et al 2015; Buckland et al 2017) changes, including but not limited to turnover (beta diversity) and richness at geographically distinct sites (gamma diversity).

The evolution of structural diversity measurements has lagged behind metrics of compositional diversity. Ecology advanced slowly, but determinedly, beyond “association”. Studies of forest layering were perhaps the first explicit consideration of structure as dimensional. Using early scaled drawings, Beard (1946) drew distinctions between taller, distinctly layered Mora forests with contiguous canopies and shorter Crappo-Guatcare forests with discontinuous canopies lacking distinct vegetation layers. 

Oosting (1951) created phytographs (2-D plots similar to modern radar graphs) which distilled multiple structural attributes into simple graphical representations that captured unique FSD features. Danseraeu (1958) proposed similar graphical approaches to quantify forest structure to include information on life form, stratification, function, leaf traits. While the Danseraeu method was taught in some mid-century field courses (Phillips 1959), neither his method nor Oosting’s phytographs gained wide acceptance given the sheer amount of information needed. These approaches originated from the physiognomic approach to structure and required intensive field observation, thus suffering implicit observer bias.  Both Dansereau (1958) and Beard (1946) included scaled horizontal and vertical axes in meters, but lacked useful means of measurably quantifying among-profile distinctions. Oosting’s phytographs rely upon visual discernment rather than actual measurement. However, 2-D canopy profile diagrams in the style of Beard (1946) were widely accepted and are still used for both teaching resources and more robust, quantitative ecosystem characterization(Parker et al. 2004; Atkins et al. 2018; Calders et al 2015). 

Catalyzed by the availability of aerial photography in the 1930s and 1940s,, landscape ecology in Europe emerged from a coalescence of work focused on interactions among vegetation, the environment, and human use patterns. Importantly, Carl Troll, the German geographer who coined the term “landscape ecology”, eschewed the formal characterization of landscape structure as a composite of discrete components (similar to the association), and instead adopted a gradient framework based on assessing population processes in the context of continuous patterns of environmental variability (Troll 1971). This was an important theoretical advancement and how we view the world today. With the coming of the space age in the 1960s and 1970s, the advent of satellite remote sensing enabled us to view the earth at scales previously impossible—far beyond aerial photography. 

The 1990s and 2000s brought several important advancements including sensors on uncrewed aerial vehiclesAV) and terrestrial laser scanners, as well as rapid advances in satellite capabilities, including MODIS, Hyperion, and several generations of Landsat.  Global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) and microcomputing are two key advances-- that have advanced FSD measurement and subsequently ecology as a whole, more than perhaps any other technology in our history. The ability to measure spatial position with high accuracy and process large data and complex programs locally, cannot be underestimated in importance. Continued progress in computational sophistication (artificial intelligence, in particular), cyberinfrastructure, optic systems, electromagnetic (EM) sensors, and GNSS, have enhanced the data processing efficiency many times over, creating research and opportunities that were previously impossible (Tang and Shao 2015). 

You can label chapter and section titles using  after them, e.g., we can reference Chapter . If you do not manually label them, there will be automatic labels anyway, e.g., Chapter

